===PAGE 1===
SetuHealth Source Document — FDA-Approved Drug Labeling

Source: openFDA (api.fda.gov), U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
This text is FDA-approved prescribing information, a work of the U.S. federal
government and not subject to copyright protection in the United States
(17 U.S.C. § 105). Retrieved programmatically via the openFDA drug label API.

Generic name: PHENYTOIN
Brand name(s): Phenytoin
Label set_id: 08a9d26b-4419-43ec-98f3-43d4534c2e76
Label effective date: 2026-04-29

This is prescribing information written for healthcare professionals, reproduced
here to demonstrate a retrieval system — it is not a substitute for a pharmacist
or prescriber, and this tool remains a PROTOTYPE, not for real clinical decisions.


===PAGE 2===
Section 7.1 — Drug Interactions

7.1 Drugs that Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Table 2 includes commonly occurring drug interactions that affect phenytoin concentrations. However, this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive. Individual prescribing information from relevant drugs should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of these agents in patients on phenytoin therapy may require an adjustment of the phenytoin dose to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 2: Drugs That Affect Phenytoin Concentrations Interacting Agent Examples Drugs that may increase phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Ethosuximide, felbamate, oxcarbazepine, methsuximide, topiramate Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, miconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Capecitabine, fluorouracil Antidepressants Fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, sertraline Gastric acid reducing agents H 2 antagonists (cimetidine), omeprazole Sulfonamides Sulfamethizole, sulfaphenazole, sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim Other Acute alcohol intake, amiodarone, chloramphenicol, chlordiazepoxide, disulfiram, estrogen, fluvastatin, isoniazid, methylphenidate, phenothiazines, salicylates, ticlopidine, tolbutamide, trazodone, warfarin Drugs that may decrease phenytoin serum levels Antacids Antacids may affect absorption of phenytoin. Calcium carbonate, aluminum hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide Prevention or Management: Phenytoin and antacids should not be taken at the same time of day Antineoplastic agents (usually in combination) Bleomycin, carboplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, methotrexate Antiviral agents Fosamprenavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir Antiepileptic drugs Carbamazepine, vigabatrin Other Chronic alcohol abuse, diazepam, diazoxide, folic acid, reserpine, rifampin, St. John's wort The induction potency of St. John's wort may vary widely based on preparation. , sucralfate, theophylline Drugs that may either increase or decrease phenytoin serum levels Antiepileptic drugs Phenobarbital, valproate sodium Valproate sodium and valproic acid are similar medications. The term valproate has been used to represent these medications. , valproic acid

===PAGE 3===
Section 7.2 — Drug Interactions

7.2 Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Table 3 includes commonly occurring drug interactions affected by phenytoin. However, this list is not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive. Individual drug package inserts should be consulted. The addition or withdrawal of phenytoin during concomitant therapy with these agents may require adjustment of the dose of these agents to achieve optimal clinical outcome. Table 3: Drugs Affected by Phenytoin Interacting Agent Examples Drugs whose efficacy is impaired by phenytoin Azoles Fluconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole Antineoplastic agents Irinotecan, paclitaxel, teniposide Delavirdine Phenytoin can substantially reduce the concentrations of delavirdine. This can lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance [see Contraindications (4) ]. Neuromuscular blocking agents Cisatracurium, pancuronium, rocuronium and vecuronium: resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of the nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents has occurred in patients chronically administered phenytoin. Whether or not phenytoin has the same effect on other non-depolarizing agents is unknown. Prevention or Management: Patients should be monitored closely for more rapid recovery from neuromuscular blockade than expected, and infusion rate requirements may be higher. Warfarin Increased and decreased PT/INR responses have been reported when phenytoin is coadministered with warfarin Other Corticosteroids, doxycycline, estrogens, furosemide, oral contraceptives, paroxetine, quinidine, rifampin, sertraline, theophylline, and vitamin D Drugs whose level is decreased by phenytoin Anticoagulants Apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, rivaroxaban Antiepileptic drugs The effect of phenytoin on phenobarbital, valproic acid and sodium valproate serum levels is unpredictable Carbamazepine, felbamate, lacosamide, lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine Antilipidemic agents Atorvastatin, fluvastatin, simvastatin Antiplatelets Ticagrelor Antiviral agents Efavirenz, lopinavir/ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir Fosamprenavir: phenytoin when given with fosamprenavir alone may decrease the concentration of amprenavir, the active metabolite. Phenytoin when given with the combination of fosamprenavir and ritonavir may increase the concentration of amprenavir Calcium channel blockers Nifedipine, nimodipine, nisoldipine, verapamil Other Albendazole (decreases active metabolite), chlorpropamide, clozapine, cyclosporine, digoxin, disopyramide, folic acid, methadone, mexiletine, praziquantel, quetiapine

===PAGE 4===
Section 7.3 — Drug Interactions

7.3 Hyperammonemia with Concomitant Use of Valproate Concomitant administration of phenytoin and valproate has been associated with an increased risk of valproate-associated hyperammonemia. Patients treated concomitantly with these two drugs should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hyperammonemia.

===PAGE 5===
Section 7.4 — Drug Interactions

7.4 Drug Enteral Feeding/Nutritional Preparations Interaction Literature reports suggest that patients who have received enteral feeding preparations and/or related nutritional supplements have lower than expected phenytoin serum levels. It is therefore suggested that phenytoin not be administered concomitantly with an enteral feeding preparation. More frequent serum phenytoin level monitoring may be necessary in these patients.

===PAGE 6===
Section 7.5 — Drug Interactions

7.5 Drug/Laboratory Test Interactions Care should be taken when using immunoanalytical methods to measure serum phenytoin concentrations.
