===PAGE 1===
SetuHealth Source Document — FDA-Approved Drug Labeling

Source: openFDA (api.fda.gov), U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
This text is FDA-approved prescribing information, a work of the U.S. federal
government and not subject to copyright protection in the United States
(17 U.S.C. § 105). Retrieved programmatically via the openFDA drug label API.

Generic name: TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE
Brand name(s): TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE
Label set_id: 004de5a4-80f8-4040-a6ea-be5e99352a36
Label effective date: 2025-11-20

This is prescribing information written for healthcare professionals, reproduced
here to demonstrate a retrieval system — it is not a substitute for a pharmacist
or prescriber, and this tool remains a PROTOTYPE, not for real clinical decisions.


===PAGE 2===
Section Table 2 — Drug Interactions

Table 2: Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Tramadol Hydrochloride Extended-Release Tablets Inhibitors of CYP2D6 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP2D6 inhibitors may result in an increase in the plasma concentration of tramadol and a decrease in the plasma concentration of M1, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. Since M1 is a more potent µ-opioid agonist, decreased M1 exposure could result in decreased therapeutic effects, and may result in signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Increased tramadol exposure can result in increased or prolonged therapeutic effects and increased risk for serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome. After stopping a CYP2D6 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease and the M1 plasma concentration will increase which could increase or prolong therapeutic effects but also increase adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity, and may cause potentially fatal respiratory depression [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] . Intervention: If concomitant use of a CYP2D6 inhibitor is necessary, evaluate patients at frequent intervals for adverse reactions including opioid withdrawal, seizures, and serotonin syndrome. If a CYP2D6 inhibitor is discontinued, consider lowering tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for adverse events including respiratory depression and sedation. Examples Quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine and bupropion Inhibitors of CYP3A4 Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inhibitors can increase the plasma concentration of tramadol and may result in a greater amount of metabolism via CYP2D6 and greater levels of M1. Follow patients closely for increased risk of serious adverse events including seizures and serotonin syndrome, and adverse reactions related to opioid toxicity including potentially fatal respiratory depression, particularly when an inhibitor is added after a stable dose of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets is achieved. After stopping a CYP3A4 inhibitor, as the effects of the inhibitor decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will decrease [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased opioid efficacy and possibly signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in patients who had developed physical dependence to tramadol. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider dosage reduction of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets until stable drug effects are achieved. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction, educate them on the signs and symptoms of seizures, serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. If a CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs and symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Examples Macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin), azole-antifungal agents (e.g. ketoconazole), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir) CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and CYP3A4 inducers can decrease the plasma concentration of tramadol [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , resulting in decreased efficacy or onset of a withdrawal syndrome in patients who have developed physical dependence to tramadol, [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5. 7)] . After stopping a CYP3A4 inducer, as the effects of the inducer decline, the tramadol plasma concentration will increase [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 )] , which could increase or prolong both the therapeutic effects and adverse reactions, and may cause seizures and serotonin syndrome, and potentially fatal respiratory depression. Intervention: If concomitant use is necessary, consider increasing the tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage until stable drug effects are achieved. Evaluate patients for signs of opioid withdrawal. If a CYP3A4 inducer is discontinued, consider tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets dosage reduction and evaluate patients at frequent intervals for seizures and serotonin syndrome, and signs of respiratory depression and sedation. Patients taking carbamazepine, a CYP3A4 inducer, may have a significantly reduced analgesic effect of tramadol. Because carbamazepine increases tramadol metabolism and because of the seizure risk associated with tramadol, concomitant administration of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and carbamazepine is not recommended. Examples: Rifampin, carbamazepine, phenytoin Benzodiazepines and Other Central Nervous System (CNS) Depressants Clinical Impact: Due to additive pharmacologic effect, the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants, including alcohol, can increase the risk of hypotension, respiratory depression, profound sedation, coma, and death [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Intervention: Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Inform patients and caregivers of this potential interaction and, educate them on the signs and symptoms of respiratory depression (including sedation). If concomitant use is warranted, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) ]. Examples: Benzodiazepines and other sedatives/hypnotics, anxiolytics, tranquilizers, muscle relaxants, general anesthetics, antipsychotics, gabapentinoids (gabapentin or pregabalin) , other opioids, alcohol. Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9) ]. Intervention: If concomitant use is warranted, frequently evaluate the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment. Discontinue tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets if serotonin syndrome is suspected. Examples: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), triptans, 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system (e.g., mirtazapine, trazodone, tramadol), certain muscle relaxants (i.e., cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone), monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors (those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others, such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue). Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs) Clinical Impact: MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.9 )] or opioid toxicity (e.g., respiratory depression, coma) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )]. Intervention: Do not use tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment. Examples: phenelzine, tranylcypromine, linezolid Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact: May reduce the analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use. Examples: butorphanol, nalbuphine, pentazocine, buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact: Tramadol may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression. Intervention: Because respiratory depression may be greater than otherwise expected, decrease the dosage of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets and/or the muscle relaxant as necessary. Due to the risk of respiratory depression with concomitant use of muscle relaxants and opioids, consider recommending or prescribing an opioid overdose reversal agent [see Dosage and Administration (2.2,), Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3)]. Diuretics Clinical Impact: Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of diminished diuresis and/or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed. Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact: The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and/or severe constipation, which may lead to paralytic ileus. Intervention: Evaluate patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets are used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of digoxin toxicity. Intervention: Evaluate patients at frequent intervals for signs of digoxin toxicity and adjust the dosage of digoxin as needed. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Post-marketing surveillance of tramadol has revealed rare reports of alteration of warfarin effect, including elevation of prothrombin times. Intervention: Frequently reevaluate the prothrombin time of patients on warfarin for signs of an interaction and adjust the dosage of warfarin as needed. Mixed Agonist/Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics: Avoid use with tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets because they may reduce analgesic effect of tramadol hydrochloride extended-release tablets or precipitate withdrawal symptoms. (5.18, 7 )
